## Airport Special Cargo Commissionerate

* Helpline No. : 022-29202602
* Email: apsc[dot]mumbai[at]gov[dot]in

[Home](index)[Office of the Chief Commissioner Mumbai Customs Zone III](commissionerates)[Airport Special Cargo Commissionerate](airport-special-cargo)Dak Ghar Niryat Kendra

Go Back

[dispalyNone](#) 

* [Home](airport-special-cargo "Home")
* [About Us](airport-special-cargo-about-us)
* [List of Officers](airport-special-cargo-list-of-officers)
* [Photo Gallery](airport-special-cargo-photo-gallery)
* [Contact Us](airport-special-cargo-contact-us)

## Dak Ghar Niryat Kendra

“Dak Ghar Niryat Kendra (DNK)” or “Post Office Export Centre” is an initiative by the Government of India to facilitate exports, particularly for small businesses, artisans, and MSMEs, by enabling online documentation and streamlined custom clearances

### Key Features

* DNK enables online documentation of export consignments.
* The initiative provides support and guidance to exporters.
* The DNK portal is integrated with the Indian Customs Electronic Gateway (ICEGATE), Indian Customs EDI System (ICES), and other relevant systems.
* DNK serves as a one-stop destination for exporters, offering comprehensive assistance for export-related documentation, logistics, customs procedures, and packing.
* It enables small businesses and MSMEs to efficiently and cost-effectively export their products.
* It aims to boost rural exports by supporting small-scale exporters and promoting local products, aligned with the “One District-One Product” initiative.

### Export through DNK

* Exporter can use DNK Portal for the export of their consignment through the [Postal Website](https://dnk.cept.gov.in/customers.web/)
* In DNK Portal Exporter can export their goods by filing PBE-III (Postal Bill of Export-III) form for e-commerce goods and by filing PBE-IV (Postal Bill of Export-IV) form for non e-commerce goods. The PBE number is automatically generated by the DNK system

 [Top](# "On click go to Top")